# Ransomware-detection

A system for detection cryptographic ransomware based on event registration and analysis for Windows OS

The work is devoted to the development of a system of detection of encryption programs based on event registration using ETW and further event analysis using machine learning apparatus for the Windows operating system. During the work recent attacks of ransomware were analyzed, as well as a comparative analysis of ways to detect encryption programs, based on the results of the analysis it was decided to develop a software implementation using the ETW mechanism. It was also decided to use the machine apparatus for the anomaly search task, so the following algorithms were compared: OneclassSVM, IsolationForest, EllipticEnvelope, LocalOutlierFactor. The IsolationForest algorithm was the best algorithm, which was used to detect ransomware. Also, in the work to train and test the classifier was necessary to create a dataset, this used the existing patterns derived in the work of Peeler, using them was implemented a program simulating the work of ransomware, with the addition of some patterns, and an algorithm for hiding malicious activity, by simulating the actions of benign software and user actions. The classifier was trained and tested using a dataset with 16 patterns, the classifier was trained on a dataset with 4 patterns, and tested on a dataset with the remaining 12 encryption software patterns. As a result, the classifier detected all 12 patterns. To test the classifier, one of the patterns was run in conjunction with benign software, such as Microsoft Office, namely, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, as well as with this user actions with files, such as renaming files, reading the file, writing to the file, also tested the use of popular software 7-Zip, for archiving, compressing and rewriting files. The program detects ransomware software and does not increase the number of false positives. On average, the ransomware manages to encrypt 10-15 files in order to detect and display a warning. The software implementation is done in the PyCharm development environment for Windows 10, but can also be paired on Windows 11, Windows 7. The practical implementation can be used in EDR systems for companies as well as for personal PCs to detect ransomware.
